>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17:
DONALD TRUMP, AGAIN, RAISES THE
POSSIBILITY OF VIOLENCE AGAINST
HILLARY CLINTON; ON "AMERICAN
GRADUATE DAY," WE LOOK AT A
SCHOOL THAT COLLECTS DATA AND
TRACKS STUDENTS TO CUSTOMIZE
LEARNING; AND, REMEMBERING
PLAYWRIGHT EDWARD ALBEE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM KETC STUDIOS IN ST. LOUIS,
MISSOURI,HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE'RE COMING TO YOU TONIGHT FROM
THE STUDIOS OF KETC, OUR PBS
AFFILIATE IN ST LOUIS, MISSOURI.
FOR THE SECOND TIME IN THIS
YEAR'S RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE,
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE DONALD TRUMP HAS
PUBLICLY RAISED THE SPECTER OF
VIOLENCE AGAINST HIS DEMOCRATIC
OPPONENT, HILLARY CLINTON.
CAMPAIGNING IN HOUSTON, TEXAS,
TODAY, TRUMP WAS SILENT ON THE
SUBJECT.
BUT LAST NIGHT, AT HIS RALLY IN
MIAMI, TRUMP STATED INCORRECTLY
THAT CLINTON FAVORS ABOLISHING
THE SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHT TO
BEAR ARMS.
AND THEN, HE SAID THIS:
>> I THINK THAT HER BODYGUARDS
SHOULD DROP ALL WEAPONS.
THEY SHOULD DISARM, RIGHT?
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
RIGHT?
I THINK THEY SHOULD DISARM.
IMMEDIATELY.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
YES?
YES.
YEAH.
TAKE THEIR GUNS AWAY.
SHE DOESN'T WANT GUNS.
TAKE THEIR... LET'S SEE WHAT
HAPPENS TO HER.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP'S WORDS
ECHOED A STATEMENT HE MADE LAST
MONTH AT A RALLY IN NORTH
CAROLINA, WHERE HE SUGGESTED GUN
OWNERS MIGHT TAKE ACTION AGAINST
CLINTON IF SHE WERE ELECTED.
BEFORE CLINTON RESUMED
CAMPAIGNING IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,
TONIGHT, HER CAMPAIGN MANAGER,
ROBBY MOOK, SAID OF TRUMP:
"INCITING PEOPLE TO VIOLENCE" IS
AN "UNACCEPTABLE QUALITY" IN
ANYONE SEEKING THE PRESIDENCY.
F.B.I. AND A.T.F. AGENTS ARE
INVESTIGATING THE SCENE OF A
FIVE-KILOMETER CHARITY RUN
BENEFITING U.S. MARINES AND
SAILORS THAT WAS CANCELED TODAY
AFTER A PIPE BOMB EXPLODED NEAR
THE RACE ROUTE.
OFFICIALS SAY THE DEVICE IN
SEASIDE PARK, NEW JERSEY,
EXPLODED INSIDE A PLASTIC
GARBAGE CAN, AND OTHER DEVICES
WERE WIRED TOGETHER INSIDE IT.
NO ONE WAS HURT, BUT AUTHORITIES
LOCKED DOWN A FOUR BLOCK AREA OF
THE BOARDWALK.
ABOUT 5,000 RUNNERS WERE
SCHEDULED TO TAKE PART IN THE
THIRD ANNUAL "SEMPER FIVE"
EVENT.
IN SYRIA, WHERE A FIVE-DAY-OLD
CEASE FIRE BROKERED BY RUSSIA
AND THE UNITED STATES IS ON
SHAKY GROUND, RUSSIA CLAIMED
TODAY U.S.-LED AIR STRIKES ON A
GOVERNMENT MILITARY BASE
SURROUNDED BY ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS KILLED AT LEAST 62
SYRIAN SOLDIERS.
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT, U.S.
CENTRAL COMMAND ACKNOWLEDGED IT
HALTED THE AIR STRIKE IN EASTERN
SYRIA, NEAR THE ISIS STRONGHOLD
OF RAQQA, IMMEDIATELY AFTER
BEING TOLD BY RUSSIAN OFFICIALS
THAT SYRIAN FORCES WERE BEING
TARGETED BY ACCIDENT.
CENTCOM SAID ITS COALITION
FORCES "WOULD NOT INTENTIONALLY
STRIKE A KNOWN SYRIAN MILITARY
UNIT."
MEANWHILE, CONVOYS OF AID
SUPPLIES FOR ALEPPO AND OTHER
BESIEGED AREAS REMAIN STALLED,
WITH UNITED NATIONS OFFICIALS
BLAMING THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
FOR BLOCKING ACCESS.
FOR MORE ON THIS SITUATION, I AM
JOINED VIA SKYPE FROM BEIRUT BY
"WASHINGTON POST" CORRESPONDENT
LIZ SLY.
LIZ, GIVEN THE INFORMATION
THAT'S COMING OUT THIS
AFTERNOON, WHAT DOES THIS DO TO
THE TRUCE THAT'S BEEN IN PLACE
FOR THE LAST WEEK?
>> WELL, IT DOESN'T DO VERY MUCH
FOR IT AT ALL.
WE KNOW THAT THE TRUCE WAS
ALREADY NOT GOING VERY WELL.
LOTS OF THINGS THAT WERE
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN DIDN'T
HAPPEN, SUCH AS DELIVERY OF AID
TO NEEDY CIVILIANS.
THERE HAS BEEN FIGHTING ALONG
THE FRONT LINES.
AND NOW WE HAVE THIS ALLEGATION
THAT THE AMERICANS HAVE BOMBED
AND KILLED 60 SYRIAN SOLDIERS,
AND THEY'RE KIND OF ADMITTING
THAT THEY PROBABLY DID DO IT.
SO THIS IS GOING TO SEND
TENSIONS SKY HIGH AND MAKE
THINGS ONLY MUCH MORE
COMPLICATED THAN THEY ALREADY
WERE.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THIS POINT,
DOES PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD
HAVE ANY INCENTIVE TO ACCEPT THE
U.S. CONTENTION THAT THIS WAS AN
ACCIDENT, IT WAS INADVERTENT?
OR DOES HE GO FORWARD AND SAY
THIS IS AN ACT OF WAR?
>> I'M NOT SURE PRESIDENT ASSAD
WAS VERY KEEN ON THIS TRUCE TO
BEGIN WITH.
I DON'T THINK HE WAS KEEN ON THE
AMERICANS AND RUSSIANS TEAMING
UP AT ALL.
SO THIS DEFINITELY BOLSTERS HIS
POSITION THAT THIS WAS NOT A
GOOD TRUCE.
THIS WAS NOT A GOOD CEASE-FIRE.
IT WAS NOT A GOOD TIME FOR A
CEASE-FIRE.
THE RUSSIANS ARE TALKING A
DIFFERENT TACT.
THE RUSSIANS ARE SAYING THIS
PROVES THAT THE AMERICANS HAVE
TO COORDINATE WITH US, BUT THE
AMERICANS DO SAY THEY DID
COORDINATE WITH THE RUSSIANS.
THEY SAID THEY DID HAPPEN TO
TELL THE RUSSIANS THAT THEY DID
PLAN TO BOMB THIS POSITION, AND
THE RUSSIANS KNEW THEY WERE
GOING TO BOMB THIS POSITION.
BUT-- SO WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED HERE, BUT WHATEVER
IT WAS, IT'S A GIANT MESS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
THIS EARLIER-- THE HUMANITARIAN
AID THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO GET
THROUGH.
THAT WAS ONE OF FIRST PHASES OF
THE TRUCE.
WHAT WAS THE PROGRESS ON THAT
THIS WEEK?
>> THERE'S BEEN NO PROGRESS AT
ALL.
THE AID HASN'T GONE INTO ANY OF
THE COMMUNITIES AT ALL BECAUSE
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
REFUSED TO GIVE PERMISSION FOR
IT TO CROSS THE BORDER, TO
ENTER THE CITY IT WAS SUPPOSED
TO ENTER.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE WAS
ALSO SUPPOSED TO BE MILITARY
COOPERATION BY THE U.S. AND THE
RUSSIANS.
UNFORTUNATELY, WE'RE SEEING THAT
THAT WAS NOT THE CASE, THAT
THESE TWO CLEARLY HADN'T
COORDINATED, AT LEAST AT THE
SITE OF THIS INCIDENT THIS
AFTERNOON.
>> WELL, THE MILITARY
COORDINATION WAS SUPPOSED TO
FOLLOW SEVEN DAYS OF CALM DURING
WHICH AID FLOWED UNIMPEDED TO
THE NEEDIEST CIVILIANS.
NOW, THERE HAS BEEN RELATIVE
CALM, ALTHOUGH FIGHTING HAS
CONTINUED ON THE FRONT LINES,
BUT THE AID HAS NOT FLOWED.
SO THE AMERICANS ARE SAYING THE
TRUCE HASN'T WORKED YET.
THE RUSSIANS ARE ACCUSING THE
AMERICANS OF NOT HAVING
DISENTANGLED THE FIGHTERS THEY
WANTED TO DISENTANGLE, AND NOW
AS WE SEE, WE HAVE THIS NEW
SITUATION WHERE IT DOES LOOK
LIKE SOME KIND OF GHASTLY
ACCIDENT, OR WHATEVER YOU WANT
TO CALL IT-- ACT OF WAR, WHICH
IS WHAT THE OTHER SIDE WILL
ALMOST CERTAINLY SAY-- HAS
OCCURRED TO JUST BLOW IT ALL UP
BEFORE IT REALLY BEGAN.
>> Sreenivasan: "WASHINGTON
POST" CORRESPONDENT LIZ SLY
JOINING US FROM BEIRUT TONIGHT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: BELGIUM HAS
RECORDED THAT COUNTRY'S FIRST
KNOWN LEGAL INCIDENT OF DOCTOR-
ASSISTED SUICIDE FOR A MINOR.
THE COUNTRY'S EUTHANASIA LAW, AS
AMENDED TWO YEARS AGO, PERMITS
DOCTOR-ASSISTED SUICIDE WITH
PARENTAL APPROVAL FOR MINORS OF
ANY AGE IN THE FINAL STAGE OF A
TERMINAL ILLNESS.
THE CHILD WAS 17.
THE ILLNESS WAS NOT DISCLOSED.
FLORIDA OFFICIALS TODAY BEGAN
SPRAYING LARVICIDE IN AN
EXPANDED ZIKA ZONE IN MIAMI
BEACH.
GOVERNOR RICK SCOTT TRIPLED THE
TRANSMISSION ZONE YESTERDAY FROM
1.5 SQUARE MILES TO 4.5 SQUARE
MILES.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT FOLLOWED HEALTH
OFFICIALS IDENTIFYING FIVE NEW
PEOPLE INFECTED WITH THE
MOSQUITO-BORNE VIRUS THROUGH
LOCAL TRANSMISSION, NOT FROM
TRAVELING ABROAD.
FLORIDA HAS COUNTED 93 CASES OF
ZIKA FROM LOCAL INFECTION, WITH
35 IN MIAMI BEACH.
EDWARD ALBEE, WHO DIED FRIDAY AT
88, WROTE "WHO'S AFRAID OF
VIRGINIA WOOLF?," CONSIDERED A
MASTERPIECE OF AMERICAN THEATER.
READ MORE ON OUR WEB SITE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: A GROUP OF
PRIVATE SCHOOLS STARTED JUST
THREE YEARS AGO BY TECH
INDUSTRY ENTREPRENEURS HAS
DESIGNS ON REINVENTING THE WAY
CHILDREN LEARN BY USING DATA TO
PERSONALIZE EDUCATION.
THE SCHOOL SYSTEM, CALLED
ALTSCHOOL, NOW OPERATES EIGHT
SMALL PRIVATE SCHOOLS IN SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK, WITH
PLANS TO LICENSE THEIR
PROPRIETARY SOFTWARE TO SCHOOLS
AROUND THE NATION.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JOANNE JENNINGS
HAS OUR STORY, WHICH IS PART OF
"AMERICAN GRADUATE DAY," A
PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE
DEDICATED TO HELPING YOUTH STAY
ON TRACK TO HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION.
("MISSION IMPOSSIBLE" THEME)
>> WHAT'S THAT I HEAR?
>> IT'S "MISSION IMPOSSIBLE."
>> OH, MY GOSH, WE MUST BE IN
FOR A REAL TREAT.
>> Reporter: EMILY GREENBERG IS
INTRODUCING HER STUDENTS TO
"PASSION PROJECTS" AT
ALTSCHOOL'S NEWEST LOCATION IN
DOWNTOWN SAN FRANCISCO.
>> SO, WE'RE THINKING OF PASSION
PROJECTS, ABOUT SOMETHING THAT
I'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT
BUT I KIND OF NEVER GOT THE TIME
TO FIGURE THAT THING OUT.
AND HERE'S YOUR TIME.
>> Reporter: IN GREENBERG'S
CLASS, STUDENT PROPOSALS RANGE
FROM LEARNING SPANISH TO
BUILDING A GO-KART.
>> YOU'LL NEED TO LEARN ABOUT
GO-KARTING.
YOU'RE GOING TO NEED MATERIALS.
>> Reporter: THE MISSION OF THIS
NETWORK OF PRIVATE, FOR-PROFIT
SCHOOLS IS TO PERSONALIZE THE
EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE, IN PART,
BY LETTING THESE KINDERGARTEN
THROUGH EIGHTH GRADE STUDENTS
DECIDE 20% OF THEIR SCHEDULE.
>> SO, IT'S THE IDEA THAT 20% OF
THEIR WEEK, OR THEIR TIME, WILL
BE SPENT DOING SOMETHING THAT'S
REALLY PERSONALLY MEANINGFUL TO
THEM.
IT MAY NOT FIT INTO,
NECESSARILY, OUR CORE ACADEMIC
GROWTH, BUT IT'S SOMETHING
THAT'S TRULY MEANINGFUL TO THEM
AS A PERSON.
IT REALLY FITS INTO THAT
PERSONALIZED WHOLE-CHILD
THINKING.
>> Reporter: THE CONCEPT OF 20%
TIME ORIGINATED AT GOOGLE, WHERE
ALTSCHOOL'S FOUNDERS ONCE
WORKED.
IN ITS EARLY DAYS, GOOGLE GAVE
EMPLOYEES ONE DAY A WEEK TO
PURSUE WHATEVER THEY WANTED,
PASSION PROJECTS THAT RESULTED
IN PRODUCTS LIKE GMAIL.
>> WE'VE DONE A LOT OF RESEARCH
INTO HOW THAT MIGHT FIT INTO OUR
CLASSROOM, AND WHAT IT MIGHT
LOOK LIKE AT ALTSCHOOL.
>> Reporter: THE PHILOSOPHY OF
ALTSCHOOL IS TO AVOID A ONE-
SIZE-FITS-ALL APPROACH TO
EDUCATION.
LET STUDENTS CHOOSE MORE OF WHAT
THEY DO IN SCHOOL, PROGRAM A
"PLAYLIST" OF LESSONS RESPONSIVE
TO STUDENT INTERESTS, COLLECT
DATA ON HOW STUDENTS LEARN BY
MONITORING THEIR COMPUTER USE
AND PERFORMANCE IN CLASS, AND
TRACK PROGRESS TO GIVE TEACHERS
QUANTITATIVE FEEDBACK.
THE CONCEPT CAME INTO FOCUS FOR
35-YEAR-OLD ALTSCHOOL FOUNDER
MAX VENTILLA WHEN HE AND HIS
WIFE STARTED TO LOOK AT PRE-
SCHOOLS FOR THEIR DAUGHTER.
AT THE TIME, HE WAS IN CHARGE OF
"PERSONALIZATION" AT GOOGLE,
DEVELOPING THOSE USER PROFILES
BASED ON HOW YOU USE THE
INTERNET, WHICH WEB SITES YOU
VISIT AND WHAT TERMS YOU SEARCH
FOR.
>> AS A PARENT, WITH MY WIFE,
THINKING ABOUT WHEN MY DAUGHTER
WAS TWO, KIND OF WHAT WOULD SHE
DO DURING THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
YEARS, AND NOT NECESSARILY
FINDING THOSE SCHOOLS THAT WE
THOUGHT WOULD PREPARE OUR
DAUGHTER, WHO'S VERY DIFFERENT
THAN US, FOR THE VERY DIFFERENT
KIND OF LIFE SHE WILL LEAD.
THE KIND OF SCHOOL THAT I WANTED
IS ACTUALLY SOMETHING THAT THE
TEAMS THAT I'VE ALWAYS BEEN PART
OF MIGHT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT.
NOT JUST FOR ONE SCHOOL, BUT FOR
MANY, MANY SCHOOLS IN THE LONG
RUN.
>> Reporter: VENTILLA, WHOSE
DAUGHTER STARTED ALTSCHOOL THIS
YEAR, BELIEVES APPLYING GOOGLE'S
USER PROFILE TECHNIQUES TO
CREATE LEARNER PROFILES CAN
IMPROVE STUDENT PERFORMANCE.
SO, ALTSCHOOL DRAWS INFERENCES
ABOUT ITS STUDENTS THE SAME WAY
GOOGLE DOES, BY COLLECTING THEIR
DATA.
>> IT'S THE SAME IN AN EDUCATION
CONTEXT.
THE IDEA THAT, AS YOU START TO
HAVE THIS DEEP UNDERSTANDING OF
WHO A CHILD IS AND WHAT A CHILD
DOES, YOU'RE ABLE TO START TO
MAKE INFERENCES AND SUGGESTIONS
AND SAY, "SIMILAR STUDENTS
PURSUING OBJECTIVES LIKE THAT
WERE REALLY WELL SERVED BY THIS
KIND OF EXPERIENCE."
MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT, AS
A STUDENT OR AS A TEACHER FOR
THAT STUDENT, YOU MIGHT WANT TO
CONSIDER.
>> SOMETHING THAT YOU NEED TO
KNOW IS THAT I CAN DEFINITELY
SEE, AND SO CAN YOUR TEACHERS.
I CAN SEE EVERYTHING YOU DO ON
YOUR CHROMEBOOKS.
>> Reporter: EVEN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL STUDENTS ARE TOLD EVERY
KEYSTROKE ON THEIR LAPTOPS USED
IN CLASS IS MONITORED.
TEACHERS ANALYZE HOW STUDENTS
ANSWER QUESTIONS AND INTERACT TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND HOW EACH CHILD
IS LEARNING, AND THEN THEY USE
THAT INFORMATION TO CUSTOMIZE
WHAT THEY GIVE STUDENTS TO READ,
EVEN CURRENT EVENT ARTICLES ON
THE WEB SITE "NEWSELA."
>> AND THIS WILL BE HOW YOU FIND
AN ARTICLE THAT I JUST ASSIGNED
TO YOU BASED ON YOUR READING
LEVEL.
>> Reporter: BY USING THE
INFORMATION COLLECTED, TEACHERS
CREATE SO-CALLED "PLAYLIST
CARDS," A CUSTOMIZED LESSON PLAN
FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL STUDENT.
EMILY DAHM HEADS TWO ALTSCHOOLS.
>> BEHIND THE SCENES, TEACHERS
ARE CREATING UNITS MADE UP OF
THESE CARDS.
A LOT OF WHAT THE KIDS END UP
DOING IS OFF THE SCREEN.
A PLAYLIST CARD MIGHT ASK A
STUDENT TO PLAY A GAME OR BUILD
SOMETHING, AND THEN THEY'RE
GOING BACK TO THAT PLAYLIST CARD
TO DOCUMENT THEIR WORK.
>> Reporter: LAST SPRING, PBS'
"NOVA" CAPTURED MIDDLE SCHOOL
STUDENT JUAN MARTIN USING HIS
PLAYLIST TO APPLY A MATH LESSON
ABOUT RATIOS TO DESIGNING A
MODEL HOME.
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, I HAVE THIS
PLAYLIST ABOUT BEING MINDFUL OF
MY SCALE.
>> Reporter: THROUGH A
COMBINATION OF ONLINE AND IN-
PERSON INTERACTIONS WITH HIS
TEACHER, MARTIN REALIZED THAT
ONE INCH IN HIS MODEL COULD
REPRESENT FIVE FEET AT FULL
SCALE.
THE LESSON, WHICH IS PRESERVED
DIGITALLY, CAN BE USEFUL TO
OTHER STUDENTS IN THE FUTURE.
>> OUR TECHNOLOGY ENABLES
EDUCATORS TO CREATE CURRICULUM
AND ALSO CAPTURE DATA ABOUT
STUDENTS THAT CAN BE SHARED WITH
OTHER EDUCATORS.
SO, AN EDUCATOR MIGHT CREATE A
UNIT WHICH CAN BE USED BY
ANOTHER EDUCATOR, AND THAT
EDUCATOR MIGHT IMPROVE UPON IT
AND THEN USE IT AGAIN WITH THEIR
KIDS. THAT'S JUST NOT SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE DONE EASILY WITHOUT
THIS TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: ALTSCHOOL TEACHERS
ALSO GET FEEDBACK FROM THESE
CAMERAS AND MICROPHONES HANGING
IN EVERY CLASSROOM, RECORDING
EVERY LESSON.
>> AND IT'S GREAT TO BE ABLE TO
REVIEW AND THINK, "HOW COULD I
HAVE DONE THAT IN A BETTER WAY
OR IN A MORE EFFECTIVE WAY," OR,
"NEXT TIME, WHEN I DELIVER THIS
MINI-LESSON, MAYBE I'LL USE A
DIFFERENT TOOL NEXT TIME," OR,
"THAT STUDENT LOOKED SUPER OFF-
TASK, HOW CAN I HELP THAT
STUDENT?"
>> Reporter: ALTSCHOOL EIGHTH
GRADER JANICE DEMINGS SAYS SHE
WAS WARY OF THE CAMERAS AT
FIRST.
>> EVERYONE WAS, LIKE, SO
FREAKED ABOUT THE CAMERAS, LIKE,
"OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE SPYING ON
US AND THEY HAVE LIKE A WHOLE
SPY TEAM!"
WE STARTED A PETITION TO GET RID
OF THE CAMERAS JUST FOR FUN, AND
NOW I FEEL THAT THE CAMERAS ARE
A VERY BENEFICIAL THING BECAUSE
THE CAMERAS ARE HERE TO TRACK
HOW WE'RE GROWING AS A CLASS,
HOW WE'RE GROWING IN OUR
INTERACTIONS.
>> Reporter: ONLY TEACHERS HAVE
ACCESS TO THE VIDEO, AND
ALTSCHOOL SAYS IT FOLLOWS STRICT
GUIDELINES THAT FORBID SHARING
IT.
ALTSCHOOL ALSO SAYS IT ENCRYPTS
ALL THE DATA, WHICH IS RETAINED
ON SECURE SERVERS.
MARK EISNER IS THE FATHER OF
EIGHTH GRADER EMMA.
ONE OF THE WAYS PERSONALIZATION
IS POSSIBLE IS BY COLLECTING A
LOT OF INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR
DAUGHTER AND THE OTHER KIDS
HERE.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?
>> I FEEL FINE ABOUT IT.
THEY DO NEED TO COLLECT
INFORMATION AND DATA TO MAKE
GOOD DECISIONS, AND I THINK
THAT'S FINE.
I MEAN, IT'S ALL ORIENTED TOWARD
TEACHING AND, YOU KNOW, REFINING
THE OVERALL EDUCATIONAL MODEL
THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO DO.
>> Reporter: SINCE OPENING IN
2013, ALTSCHOOL SAYS ITS
STUDENTS HAVE SCORED ABOVE
NATIONAL AVERAGES IN
STANDARDIZED TESTS BUT DECLINED
TO SHARE ANY SCORES.
A REPORT LAST YEAR FROM THE
GATES FOUNDATION AND THE RAND
CORPORATION LOOKED AT 11,000
STUDENTS IN 62 SCHOOLS WITH THE
PERSONALIZED LEARNING APPROACH.
IT FOUND THOSE STUDENTS "MADE
GAINS IN MATHEMATICS AND READING
THAT WERE SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER"
THAN THEIR PEERS IN REGULAR
SCHOOLS.
FOR EXAMPLE, DURING THE PAST TWO
SCHOOL YEARS, THEY GAINED 11
PERCENTILE POINTS IN MATH TESTS.
LARRY CUBAN IS A FORMER TEACHER,
PUBLIC SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR AND
STANFORD SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
PROFESSOR.
HE WARNS THAT PAST EFFORTS TO
INDIVIDUALIZE INSTRUCTION HAVE
FALLEN SHORT OF EXPECTATIONS.
>> I'M ALLERGIC TO OVER-
PROMISING.
I'M ALLERGIC TO EXAGGERATION,
BECAUSE I'VE BEEN IN SCHOOLS FOR
A LARGE PART OF MY LIFE AND I
STILL GO TO SCHOOLS.
WHAT I WANT IS REALISTIC,
EVIDENCE-BASED KINDS OF THINGS
THAT KNOW THE HISTORY OF THESE
EFFORTS AND WHY THEY FLOP
BEFORE, SO YOU CAN HAVE A MUCH
SMARTER APPROACH TO REFORMING
SCHOOLS, TO IMPROVE WHAT GOES ON
IN CLASSROOMS.
>> Reporter: NEXT YEAR,
ALTSCHOOL PLANS TO OPEN ITS
FIRST SCHOOL IN CHICAGO AND
ANOTHER IN NEW YORK, AND EXPAND
FURTHER BY PARTNERING WITH OTHER
PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
EVENTUALLY, THE GOAL IS TO
LICENSE ITS SOFTWARE TO PUBLIC
SCHOOLS, A POTENTIAL MONEY MAKER
THAT'S HELPED ATTRACT $133
MILLION IN FUNDING FROM
INVESTORS.
WHY SHOULD THEY INVEST IN
ALTSCHOOL?
WHAT KIND OF RETURN ARE THEY
GOING TO GET ON THEIR
INVESTMENT?
>> THEY ARE LOOKING OVER THE
VERY LONG-TERM. SO, THEY ARE
SAYING, "IF THIS IS SUCCESSFUL
IN 15 YEARS, THEN IT CAN ACHIEVE
A KIND OF CRITICAL MASS.
THE BEAUTY OF THAT IS, IT COSTS
A LOT TO BUILD THE FIRST ONE,
BUT THEN IT'S VERY, VERY CHEAP
TO BUILD THE SECOND ONE, AND THE
1,000th ONE, AND 10,000th ONE.
>> Reporter: WITH AN ANNUAL
TUITION STARTING AT $26,000,
RELATIVELY SMALL CLASS SIZES AND
ONLY 450 STUDENTS ENROLLED IN
ITS EIGHT ALTSCHOOLS, LARRY
CUBAN IS SKEPTICAL THE METHODS
HONED HERE CAN BE EASILY APPLIED
TO LARGE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WITH THE
GREATEST NEEDS.
>> THAT DOES NOT MAKE IT AN EASY
MODEL FOR ALTERING OR
TRANSFORMING PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
WHICH HAVE A DIFFERENT
DEMOGRAPHY BOTH IN STUDENTS AND
TEACHERS.
WHEN YOU HAVE A PUBLIC SCHOOL
SYSTEM-- IN THIS CASE OF 50
MILLION KIDS, THREE MILLION
TEACHERS-- YOU HAVE A GREAT DEAL
OF VARIATION.
>> I THINK YOU NEED TO START
WITH AN IDEALIZED ENVIRONMENT IF
YOU'RE TRYING TO DO SOMETHING
REALLY TRANSFORMATIVELY
DIFFERENT.
HOW DO YOU END UP IN AN
EDUCATION FUTURE WHERE THE
PEOPLE WITH RESOURCES ARE
ACTUALLY GETTING THE SAME
EXPERIENCE THAT PEOPLE WITH FAR
LESS RESOURCES HAVE?
AND I JUST HAVE THIS NAIVE
BELIEF THAT TECHNOLOGY IS AN
ESSENTIAL INGREDIENT IN THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SUNDAY, INNOVATIONS THAT
MAY PREDICT WHEN SOMEONE WILL
ATTEMPT TO TAKE THEIR OWN LIFE.
>> IT PREDICTS BETTER THAN A
PERSON'S OWN REPORT OF WHETHER
THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE A SUICIDE
ATTEMPT.
IT PREDICTS BETTER THAN
CLINICIANS' REPORTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AS PART OF THE
"AMERICAN GRADUATE DAY"
INITIATIVE, OUR COLLEAGUES RIGHT
HERE AT KETC IN ST. LOUIS HAVE
PRODUCED A DOCUMENTARY CALLED
"GENTLEMEN OF VISION."
IT'S ABOUT A GROUP OF MOSTLY
AFRICAN-AMERICAN YOUNG MEN WHO
ARE PART OF A STEP TEAM.
STEP IS A FORM OF RHYTHMIC DANCE
POPULAR WITH HISTORICALLY BLACK
FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES AT
AMERICAN COLLEGES.
THE GENTLEMEN OF VISION, OR
G.O.V., TEAM IN ST. LOUIS
INCLUDES HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
WITH CHALLENGING BACKGROUNDS WHO
ASPIRE TO GO TO COLLEGE.
THE PROGRAM'S GOAL IS TO
DECREASE THE DROPOUT RATE AND
HAVE THEM GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL.
IN THIS EXCERPT, WE MEET A FEW
OF THE YOUNG MEN WHO'VE
COMMITTED TO THE DISCIPLINE OF
PRACTICE AND COMPETITION, WITH A
COACH WHO TRAINS THEM IN STEP
AND IN LIFE.
>> STEP, TEAM!
>> YOU HAVE BEEN HERE FOR A LONG
PERIOD OF TIME, AND YOU STILL
HAVE NOT LEARNED THESE STEPS.
PLEASE DROP.
I'M IN A LOW-INCOME FAMILY.
FOR EVERYBODY ELSE, GET BACK UP.
SO YOU JUST KNOW THE STRUGGLE OF
NOT HAVING ANY MONEY.
YOU HEAR IT ALL TIME, "EDUCATION
IS KEY.
EDUCATION IS KEY TO SURVIVAL."
SO I ACTUALLY UPON TO ATTEND
HOWARD UNIVERSITY, AND I WANT TO
MAJOR IN BIOLOGY.
5, 6, 7, 8.
>> WE GOTTA NIX THIS, MAN.
WE'RE GOING TO GET THRASHED THIS
YEAR.
>> MR. WARDEN, ONE OF THE THINGS
HE'S ALWAYS TOLD ME, "IF YOU
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH SOMETHING,
THEN YOU DO WHAT YOU CAN, AND
YOU DO IT BETTER THAN THE PERSON
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE DOING IT
NOW."
>> SO I APOLOGIZE.
YOU KNOW I NEVER DO THAT.
>> SO THAT EXPLAINS WHY I'M
PRESIDENT--
>> YOU HAVE ONE MORE YEAR BEFORE
I KICK YOU OUT AND YOU HAVE TO
GO COLLEGE, RIGHT?
SO LET'S MAKE THAT WORK.
>> I NOW CALL THIS MEETING TO
ORDER.
THE FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS
WE'RE GOING TO GO AROUND THE
ROOM AND ADDRESS ATTIRE-- DRESS
SLACKS, DRESS SHIRT, BOW TIE OR
TIE, DRESS SHOES.
>> EVERY TIME WE GO OUT OF TOWN,
WE TAKE A COLLEGE VISIT.
WE LIKE TO INTRODUCE THIS TO
THEM AT SUCH A YOUNG AGE EVERY
YEAR, YOU KNOW, SIX, SEVENTH,
EIGHTH, NINTH, ON UP TO
12th, SO THEY ARE GAINING
MORE COMFORT AND DOING THESE
THINGS.
NOW WE HAVE OUR SINGERS THAT
CANNOT WAIT TO LEAVE AND GO TO
COLLEGE.
>> WE ARE THE G.O.V.
WE CAN'T BE BEAT.
>> WE MEET ONE OF OUR FRATERNITY
BROTHERS, SHOW US AROUND THIS
COLLEGE, GIVE US THE HISTORY OF
THIS COLLEGE, GIVE US THE
BACKGROUND OF THIS COLLEGE.
>> WE ATTEND SCHOOL HERE, AND WE
TAKE CLASSES HERE.
WE DO MENTORING, TOO, SO WE HELP
YOUNGER STUDENT LIKE YOURSELVES
TO TELL YOU WHAT TO EXPECT.
>> WE HAVE SOME GOING TO HOWARD.
WE HAVE SOME GOING TO LINCOLN
UNIVERSITY.
WE HAVE SOME GOING TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS CITY.
WE HAVE THEM GOING ALL
OVER THE PLACE AND THEY CANNOT
WAIT.
THEY ALREADY HAVE THE EXPOSURE
AND THEY KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT
WHEN THEY GET THERE.
THEY BELIEVE IN THEMSELVES.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY CAN DO IT.
AND THEY CAN DO IT AND WILL.
>> WHEN MR. WARDEN CAME UP WITH
THIS VISION, IT WAS NOT ONLY
JUST ABOUT STEPPING, IT WAS
REALLY MENTORING.
IT WAS ABOUT TRAINING UP THE NEW
GENERATION TO THINK DIFFERENTLY
AND SHOWCASE WE'RE CAPABLE WHEN
WE'RE TOLD WE'RE NOT.
WHEN PEOPLE OF COLOR ARE TOLD
THEY ARE NOT CAPABLE OF DOING
SOMETHING, HE GROUND US.
HE TOLD US WHERE WE CAME FROM
AND WHERE WE'RE GOING.
>> I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
COMING DOWN HERE.
I BROUGHT TWO OF MY TEAMS,
NATIONALLY RANKED TEAMS, TO COME
DOWN AND PUT A SHOW ON FOR YOU
ALL.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: EDWARD ALBEE,
ONE OF THE TOWERING PLAYWRIGHTS
OF AMERICAN THEATER, DIED
YESTERDAY AT HIS HOME IN
MONTAUK, NEW YORK.
HIS PERSONAL ASSISTANT SAID
ALBEE DIED AFTER A SHORT ILLNESS
BUT GAVE NO DETAILS.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S ZACHARY GREEN
HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: ALBEE LEAVES A
LEGACY OF GREAT PLAYS THAT
CHALLENGED HIS AUDIENCE, SOME 30
WORKS THAT EARNED HIM THREE
PULITZER PRIZES, THREE TONY
AWARDS AND THE NATIONAL MEDAL OF
THE ARTS.
HE BURST ONTO THE SCENE IN 1959
WITH THE PLAY "ZOO STORY," ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN TWO STRANGERS
MEET ON A PARK BENCH.
THROUGHOUT HIS CAREER, ALBEE'S
PLAYS TURNED A HARSH, BRIGHT
SPOTLIGHT ON THE ACCEPTED MORES
OF AMERICAN LIFE: LOVE,
MARRIAGE, RELIGION.
HE TOLD PBS' CHARLIE ROSE IN
2008, A PLAY SHOULD HOLD A
MIRROR UP TO PEOPLE.
>> IF YOU ARE GOING TO SPEND A
HUNDRED BUCKS OR MORE TO GO TO
THE THEATER, SOMETHING SHOULD
HAPPEN TO YOU.
SOMEONE SHOULD BE ASKING SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR VALUES OR
THE WAY YOU THINK ABOUT THINGS.
>> Reporter: WHICH IS WHAT ALBEE
DID IN EARLY PLAYS LIKE "A
DELICATE BALANCE" AND "TINY
ALICE," AND LATER IN THE
CONTROVERSIAL "THE GOAT, OR WHO
IS SYLVIA?," ABOUT A MAN WHO
FALLS IN LOVE WITH A GOAT.
HIS BEST KNOWN PLAY, REVIVED
THREE TIMES ON BROADWAY, WAS
1962'S "WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA
WOOLF," A RAW AND SCATHING
PORTRAYAL OF A MARRIED COUPLE IN
A SMALL TOWN COLLEGE SETTING.
ELIZABETH TAYLOR AND RICHARD
BURTON STARRED IN THE FILM THAT
WON SEVERAL ACADEMY AWARDS.
>> I'M LOUD, AND I'M VULGAR.
AND I WEAR THE PANTS IN THE
HOUSE BECAUSE SOMEBODY'S GOT TO!
>> Reporter: ALBEE GREW UP IN
NEW YORK WITH AN ADOPTIVE FAMILY
THAT HE ADMITTED HE DID NOT
LIKE.
IN THE 1991 PLAY "THREE TALL
WOMEN," ALBEE DREW ON HIS
FEELINGS OF RESENTMENT TOWARD
HIS ADOPTIVE MOTHER, SAYING HE
WAS "EXORCISING HIS DEMONS" IN
THE PLAY.
ALBEE SAID HE RELISHED MAKING
THEATERGOERS UNCOMFORTABLE,
TELLING THE "NEW YORK TIMES" HIS
ONLY TABOO WAS NEVER TO BORE AN
INTELLIGENT, RESPONSIBLE
AUDIENCE.
EDWARD ALBEE WAS 88 YEARS OLD.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
ROBERT GATES, WHO SERVED AS
DEFENSE SECRETARY FOR PRESIDENTS
OBAMA AND GEORGE W. BUSH, SAID
TODAY DONALD TRUMP IS
"UNQUALIFIED AND UNFIT" TO BE
COMMANDER IN CHIEF.
WRITING IN THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL," GATES SAID TRUMP IS
STUBBORNLY UNINFORMED ABOUT THE
WORLD AND TEMPERAMENTALLY
UNSUITED TO LEAD OUR MEN AND
WOMEN IN UNIFORM.
GATES JOINS DOZENS OF
REPUBLICAN FORMER NATIONAL
SECURITY OFFICIALS WHO HAVE COME
OUT PUBLICLY AGAINST TRUMP.
BUT HE ALSO SAID CLINTON, LIKE
TRUMP, HAS NOT SERIOUSLY
ADDRESSED HOW SHE THINKS ABOUT
USING MILITARY FORCE OR THE
CRITERIA SHE'D APPLY BEFORE
DEPLOYING TROOPS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS AGAIN FOR WATCHING AND
THANKS AGAIN TO OUR FRIENDS HERE
AT KETC IN ST. LOUIS FOR HOSTING
TONIGHT'S BROADCAST.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.